https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zAOUpVM6R6I&list=PLtgiThe4j67rAoPmnCQmcgLS4iIc5ungg
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sql-query-interview-questions/
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sql-interview-questions/

Data redundancy is the practice of storing the same data in multiple locations, such as in different tables, databases, or systems

Data integrity is the assurance that an organization's data is accurate, complete, and consistent
How is data integrity maintained?
1) Transaction control
Ensuring that data remains consistent during concurrent database operations 
2) Domain integrity
If no data integrity means - we cant trust the data anymore- 2 dob belong to same person (duplicate primary key)
Ensuring that data in a table's columns adheres to predefined rules or constraints 

Database normalization is a crucial process in database design that aims to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity. It involves organizing data into tables in such a way that dependencies between data are properly enforced by database integrity constraints.

prevent anamolies-  prevent error when adding removing updating data

Normal Forms
Normalization is a progressive process, with each level building upon the previous one. The most commonly used normal forms are:

First Normal Form (1NF):
each cell should have only single value - not comma seperated values
Eliminates repeating groups in individual tables.
Creates a separate table for each set of related data.
Identifies each set of related data with a primary key.

Second Normal Form (2NF):
All non-key attributes must depend on primary key
ex- if we store both student and teacher info in same table and student id = pk its wrong- bec teacher name doesnt depend on student primary key
Must satisfy 1NF.
Eliminates redundant data that depends only on part of a composite key.

Third Normal Form (3NF):
Must satisfy 2NF.
Eliminates data that depends on non-key attributes (transitive dependency).
...

BCNF


view
------
if table is having lot of data, if u want user to see only data related to him- then create a view and give the view to him-
view doesnt contain data
let say aadhar table contains all state data -then if u want users to limit the data, create a banglore view to user, so that he can see blr people data
create view v1 as select * from aadhar where location= banglore

Triggers
-------

to get nth highest salary - sort by desc and fetch that particular row
queries
----------


name    branch marks rowNum
mani   cse 900 1
santu  cse 800 2

sailu ece 900 1
abi ece   800 2
total data ---
Stephen	Computer	USA		2015	200
Joseph	Laptop		India	2016	500
John	TV			USA 	2016	700
Donald	Laptop		England	2015	600
Joseph	Mobile		India	2015	159
Peter	Mouse		England	2016	999

--query to fetch country wise highest salary- so 1st partition by each country  and sort by salary  -- and then assign row numbers to each partition 
select * from 
 (select *, row_number() over (partition by Country order by Salary desc) as row_num from person) personTemp where row_num=1
 
Peter	Mouse	England	2016	999	1
Joseph	Laptop	India	2016	500	1
John	TV	USA	2016	700	1

select name ,branch, marks, row_number() over ( partition by branch order by marks desc)

in every branch if i want 1st ranker 



